Add application startup 'Getting started' example (#1977)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: Reference/Events/Application-Startup.md

versionFrom: 8.0.0
---

# Application startup

> The `ApplicationEventHandler` approach for registering events has been removed in Umbraco 8. The new approach for registering custom code at the 'ApplicationStarting' and 'ApplicationStarted' events uses a combination of 'Composers' and 'Components', you can find a basic example below and more detailed ones on the [Composing](../../Implementation/Composing) page.

Reviewer: Shouldn't 'ApplicationStarting' and 'ApplicationStarted' be formatted as code instead?
So, `ApplicationStarting` and `ApplicationStarted` ? 🤔

Author: It wasn't already, but we probably should indeed:

```suggestion
The `ApplicationEventHandler` approach for registering events has been removed in Umbraco 8. The new approach for registering custom code at the `ApplicationStarting` and `ApplicationStarted` events uses a combination of 'Composers' and 'Components', you can find a basic example below and more detailed ones on the [Composing](../../Implementation/Composing) page.
```

Core developer Stephan also has a series of blog posts about the changes:
- [Composing Umbraco v8](https://www.zpqrtbnk.net/posts/composing-umbraco-v8/)
- [Composing Umbraco v8 Collections](https://www.zpqrtbnk.net/posts/composing-umbraco-v8-collections/)
- [Composing Umbraco v8 Components](https://www.zpqrtbnk.net/posts/composing-umbraco-v8-components/)

## Example - Getting started

> The following code uses a `ComponentComposer<T>` to add the `ApplicationComponent`. You can optionally override the `Compose()` method if you want to compose more then only adding the component (make sure to keep the call to the base method, as the component isn't added otherwise).    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code uses a `ComponentComposer<T>` to add the `ApplicationComponent`. You can optionally override the `Compose()` method if you want to compose more than only adding the component (make sure to keep the call to the base method, as the component isn't added otherwise).    
```
